README.md, before:

# indexcov-nf

Browse your coverage; a companion viewer for indexcov results.

Here we use [indexcov](https://github.com/brentp/goleft/tree/master/indexcov)
to quickly estimate the coverage across samples then find regions of large,
coverage-based anomalies. The aim is to highlight regions of significant
(passing the user's z-score threshold) and sustained (beyond user specified
distance) deviation from the majority of samples. Significance is determined
using z-scores (`--zthreshold`) for all samples at all points, but in order to
be highlighted, points must be significant consecutively throughout a user
specified distance (`--distancethreshold`).

# Usage

Install `nextflow`:

```
curl -s https://get.nextflow.io | bash
```

With Docker or Singularity:

```
nextflow run brwnj/indexcov-nf -latest -profile docker \
    --indexes 'data/indexes/*.crai' \
    --fai data/g1k_v37_decoy.fa.fai \
    --gff data/Homo_sapiens.GRCh37.82.gff3.gz
```

Which gives us `./results/indexcov-nf_report.html`.

## Required arguments

+ `--indexes`
    + quoted file path with wildcard ('*.crai') to cram or bam indexes
+ `--fai`
    + file path to .fai reference index
+ `--gff`
    + file path to gff matching genome build of `--indexes`

## Options

+ `--outdir`
    + output directory for results
    + default: "./results"
+ `--sexchroms`
    + sex chromosomes as they are in `--indexes`
    + default: "X,Y"
+ `--exclude`
    + regular expression of chromosomes to skip
    + default: "^GL|^hs|^chrEBV$|M$|MT$|^NC|_random$|Un_|^HLA\\-|_alt$|hap\\d+$"
+ `--zthreshold`
    + a sample must greater than this many standard deviations in order to be found siginificant
    + default: 4
+ `--distancethreshold`
    + consecutive significant points must span this distance in order to pass this filter
    + default: 150000
+ `--slop`
    + leading and trailing segments added to significant regions to make them more visible
    + default: 500000
+ `--project`
    + can be used to name your indexcov to something more meaningful
    + default: "NF"


# Report

## Interactive example

See: https://brwnj.github.io/indexcov-nf/

## Scaled chromosome coverage

Significant regions will be displayed in color atop a gray region which represents the upper and lower bounds of a given point minus any values deemed significant.

![significant_regions](data/img/significant_regions.png)

## Proportions covered

![proportional_coverage](data/img/proportional_coverage.png)

The metadata table will be displayed below the plots.

## Interaction

Clicking on plot traces highlights the line and searches the metadata. Double-clicking de-selects lines, resets the plot, and de-selects samples from the table. Clicking on the gene track launches a search for the gene's respective Gene Card. In cases where genes overlap, multiple windows/tabs will be opened.

# License

indexcov-nf is free and unrestricted for non-commercial use. For commercial use,
please contact [bpedersen@base2genomics.com].

Commit message:

name change to distinguish from indexcov

README.md, after:

# covviz

Browse your coverage; a companion viewer for indexcov results.

Here we use [indexcov](https://github.com/brentp/goleft/tree/master/indexcov)
to quickly estimate the coverage across samples then find regions of large,
coverage-based anomalies. The aim is to highlight regions of significant
(passing the user's z-score threshold) and sustained (beyond user specified
distance) deviation from the majority of samples. Significance is determined
using z-scores (`--zthreshold`) for all samples at all points using median
absolute deviation, but in order to be highlighted, points must be significant
consecutively throughout a user specified distance (`--distancethreshold`).

# Usage

Install `nextflow`:

```
curl -s https://get.nextflow.io | bash
```

With Docker or Singularity:

```
nextflow run brwnj/covviz -latest -profile docker \
    --indexes 'data/indexes/*.crai' \
    --fai data/g1k_v37_decoy.fa.fai \
    --gff data/Homo_sapiens.GRCh37.82.gff3.gz
```

Which gives us `./results/covviz_report.html`.

## Required arguments

+ `--indexes`
    + quoted file path with wildcard ('*.crai') to cram or bam indexes
+ `--fai`
    + file path to .fai reference index
+ `--gff`
    + file path to gff matching genome build of `--indexes`

## Options

+ `--outdir`
    + output directory for results
    + default: "./results"
+ `--sexchroms`
    + sex chromosomes as they are in `--indexes`
    + default: "X,Y"
+ `--exclude`
    + regular expression of chromosomes to skip
    + default: "^GL|^hs|^chrEBV$|M$|MT$|^NC|_random$|Un_|^HLA\\-|_alt$|hap\\d+$"
+ `--zthreshold`
    + a sample must greater than this many standard deviations in order to be found siginificant
    + default: 4
+ `--distancethreshold`
    + consecutive significant points must span this distance in order to pass this filter
    + default: 150000
+ `--slop`
    + leading and trailing segments added to significant regions to make them more visible
    + default: 500000
+ `--project`
    + can be used to name your indexcov to something more meaningful
    + default: "NF"


# Report

## Interactive example

See: https://brwnj.github.io/covviz/

## Scaled chromosome coverage

Significant regions will be displayed in color atop a gray region which represents the upper and lower bounds of a given point minus any values deemed significant.

![significant_regions](data/img/significant_regions.png)

## Proportions covered

![proportional_coverage](data/img/proportional_coverage.png)

The metadata table will be displayed below the plots.

## Interaction

Clicking on plot traces highlights the line and searches the metadata. Double-clicking de-selects lines, resets the plot, and de-selects samples from the table. Clicking on the gene track launches a search for the gene's respective Gene Card. In cases where genes overlap, multiple windows/tabs will be opened.

# License

covviz is free and unrestricted for non-commercial use. For commercial use,
please contact [bpedersen@base2genomics.com].
